= 2018-Aug-7_4pm =

== Decision #: ==
1
== Decision: ==
Take a break from work to practice Haskell
== Date: ==
2018-aug-7
== Time: ==
4pm
== Mental/Physical State: ==
- [ ] Happy
- [ ] Energized
- [ ] Confident
- [ ] Accomodating
- [X] Frustrated
- [ ] Focused
- [X] Tired
- [ ] Sad
- [X] Anxious
- [ ] Angry
- [ ] Relaxed
- [ ] Accepting
- [ ] Resigned

== The situation/context ==
I was working on SL and was feeling frustrated and thought, "Why not practice Haskell for a bit now as a break?". Plus I probably won't have much time to practice it later either since I have a guitar lesson.
Oh, and I also have a headache.
I also am feeling imposter syndrome a bit much.
== The problem statement or frame ==
What do I do to take a break and regain myself?
== The variables that govern the situation include ... ==
- Time
- Mood
== The complications/complexities as I see them ==
- I'm not working on work work 
== Alternatives that were considered but not chosen ==
- Exploring the internet
== The possible range of outcomes ==
- I feel more confident and happy from doing Haskell
- I feel more anxious and more of imposter syndrome because I get stuck not understanding something
== What I expect to happen and the actual probabilities ==
I expect that I'm going to do Haskell, work at it until I get something going, and feel mildly accomplished. 
== The decision (discussion) ==
Do Haskell 
== Review date (next day): ==
I did practice Haskell a bit and I managed to solve my problem! It took a bit longer than expected, but I did feel well. Headache persisted though.
== What actually happened: ==
Read review
== What I learned ==
I learned that overcoming something makes me feel better when I'm frustrated by everything.
