= My Wikiblog =

Wikiblog? Yeah, I know. I couldn't come up with anything better at the moment. This is just a space to record my thoughts and reflections on tech/code stuff.

== Categories ==
[[Blog Stuff]]
[[Books, Articles, and Papers]]
[[Ideas]]
[[Music]]
[[Project with Courtney]]
[[Presentation Skills]]
[[Tech]]
[[Work Notes]]


# Todo
- Read up on `:h rtp`
- Fix markdown settings on vimwiki


== Goals ==
*Big Time:*
- Become proficient at guitar:
  - Be able to perform clean sweeps
  - Be able to do multi-finger tapping (Sarah Longfield style) at XXX Bpm
  - Be able to perform polyrhythms fingerstyle
  - Improve my knowledge of chords:
    - All main Major chords
    - All main Minor chords
    - Movable chord figures to get the sharps/flats
    - All main Major 7th chords
    - All main Minor 7th chords
    - Some diminished chords
    - Some augmented chords
  - Be able to play flamenco << Needs more deets
- Become proficient at programming: << All needs more deets
  - Create the Edu-suite for Courtney
  - Get through SICP
  - Get through the Haskell Book

== Monthly Goals ==
- Make a track with Guitarix & Linux
- Be able to make stub pages for a SPA app using Elm

== Weekly goals ==
- Check out Hydrogen drums
- Read through chapter 2 of https://elmprogramming.com/


== Random Thoughts ==
Could we learn about scalability from nature?
A tree grows both vertically (height) and horizontally (branches/width). Plus there are so many branches to a tree, each seemingly going its own way. There must be some system for balancing itself out. How does a tree's branches grow without the tree itself becoming lopsided?
A tree has leaves to provide nutrition to too. Water soaks in through the roots, up the branches, to the leaves, correct? And there are so many leaves per branch. How is nutrition distributed across the whole tree?
Does a tree branch ever split into three? like -|- ? Branch splits always seem like one branch is the main while the other is the secondary.
