= What am I looking for =
- Tenkeyless or 60%
  - I think I like 60% more, but tenkeyless is definitely more versatile unless if it's a programmable one where I can make something like Fn + h/j/k/l = up/down/left/right
  - On second thought, while 60% would be cool I don't want to deal with having to memorize new configuration/key commands. I do that enough with vim
- Preferably light so I can bring it around with me
- This would be for *both home & work*
- I'm stuck on the keyboard CTRL/Alt/Super/Fn layout
  - I like having the function key by the left pinky, but I also like having control there too
  - I do think I prefer Fn near the pinky
- Fn keys:
  - Do I currently use them a lot? No
  - I do need them for media keys though
  - Media keys:
    - [NEED] Vol Up
    - [NEED] Vol Down
    - [MIXED] Play/Pause
    - [MIXED] Fast-forward
    - [MIXED] Rewind
    - [MIXED] Brightness Up << been using apps to auto-control brightess
    - [MIXED] Brightness Down << been using apps to auto-control brightess


= Options =
I like this one a lot [Varmilo VA87M]( https://shopkey.doyustudio.com/7l1wlsw-bb )
^I like the key caps on it a lot. That's the only thing. 

Pok3r looks nice too. Supports OS X, Linux, & Windows. Seems *programmable* too!
Like this one: https://mechanicalkeyboards.com/shop/index.php?l=product_detail&p=3633

There's also [this]( https://mechanicalkeyboards.com/shop/index.php?l=product_detail&p=3684 ) for $100.
^Apparently it's *programmable* as well

[This] ( https://www.amazon.com/Filco-Majestouch-2-Tenkeyless-FKBN87M-EFB2/dp/B004ZJPSGI/ref=lp_7936803011_1_2?srs=7936803011&ie=UTF8&qid=1535552224&sr=8-2 )
also looks appealing. Tenkeyless, cherry mx brown, but price is meh, Got a lot of good reviews on amazon & reddit though

I like this one a lot. Cherry mx, tkl, from US
https://mechanicalkeyboards.com/shop/index.php?l=product_detail&p=914

Vortex Race 3 -- 75% keyboard
I realize i really like 75%
https://mechanicalkeyboards.com/shop/index.php?l=product_detail&p=3917
^^^ Yeah, I'm pretty sold now. Just saw a video on it, has the media keys I need and most of the others that I'm mixed with. Plus has modes for mac or windows
^^^ Go with this one. -- prolly browns

THis one too is nice - also 75%
https://mechanicalkeyboards.com/shop/index.php?l=product_detail&p=411
