= Laptops =

I'm looking to buy a new laptop for primarily coding and web surfing.
The types of coding I'm interested in doing is primarily web dev and systems (Rust) stuff.

At first I was looking at the Dell XPS 13 Dev edition, but I'm wondering if that's overkill.

Seems like the min specs I would need is:
- Proceesor: i3 / i5
- RAM: 8GB - (can be upgraded though)
- Nice display
- Keyboard I don't care too much about since I'm thinking about getting a separate keyboard
- Supports Ubuntu

Lenovo I hear a lot about, but I know they had the stint with Chinese Malware last year.
ASUS and ACER I'm not sure about...
Dell is always an option, but I'm limited to their XPS or Inspirion models
HP is a NO
System76 is to be considered.


Looking at Dell or maybe Asus? I read that Acer isn't great quality.

Thinking about giving Asus a check. They do make motherboards, CPUs, etc. while Dell makes just monitors.
Seems a worthy point. But I'm a bit concerned with them being a foreign company and what that entails, although Dell may not do any better.

I'm looking at Asus' history and am impressed with it. They seem to value keeping things green and were apparently the first PC company to offer a recycling program in the US. Plus their values seem nice, even though it could just be PR bullshit.

I'm honestly looking at trying out an Asus Zenbook laptop. Good specs (matches the above) for around $700!
Like: https://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=1TS-001A-004Y2
Or: https://www.amazon.com/Ultra-Slim-13-3-inch-Fingerprint-Anti-Glare-UX330UA-AH55/dp/B075N1YHVK/ref=sr_1_1?s=pc&ie=UTF8&qid=1520464201&sr=1-1&keywords=asus+zenbook&refinements=p_n_feature_four_browse-bin%3A2289793011

Actually, the i7 model looks real nice for a bit more: https://store.asus.com/us/item/201712AM060000001/A47082-ASUS-ZenBook-UX430UA-DH74-Ultra-Slim-Laptop-14%E2%80%9D-FHD-wideview-display-8th-gen-Intel-Core-i7-Processor%2C-16GB-DDR3%2C-512GB-SSD%2C-Windows-10%2C-Backlit-keyboard%2C-Quartz-Grey



== Comparing Asus Zenbook Models ==
Used this link for comparins i5 processors https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/compare-products.html/processors?productIds=124967,95443,88193
decided I'd like to go with the i5-8250U or maybe i5-7200U (though would prefer the former)

- UX331UN - i5-8250U == IDK, has NVidia stuff as part of the graphics
- UX330UA - i5-8250U | i5-7200U == good things said about this + ubuntu on reddit forums
- UX430UA - i7-8550U | i7-7500U | i5-8250U | i5-7200U = Up to 16GB RAM == seems ok? can't find much on reddit forums
- Q325UA - i7-8550U = Up to 16GB RAM == can't find much on this + ubuntu or any linux online
_SUMMARY_
Going to go with 330UA or 430UA, more towards 330UA. Actually probably 430UA since it seems hard to find 330UA with i7

I just compared the i5-8250U against the i7-8550U and i7-7500U and the i5 is preferrable to the i7-7500U

I'm going to go with the UX330UA (i5-8520U) or UX430UA (i5-8520U -- i7 is reported to have problems).
[UX330UA]https://www.amazon.com/dp/B072WK2PVP/ref=twister_B077BNJHVJ?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1
[UX4330UA]https://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=9SIAD6H6M86937



If the Dell route needs to be revisted, definitely going with a XPS 13:
New model, but with 128GB SSD - http://www.dell.com/us/business/p/xps-13-9370-laptop/pd?oc=cax13w10p2c610ubuntu&model_id=xps-13-9370-laptop&l=en&s=bsd
Old model, but with 256GB SSD - http://www.dell.com/us/business/p/xps-13-9360-laptop/pd?oc=cax13w10p7b5125ubuntu&model_id=xps-13-9360-laptop&l=en&s=bsd


Just need to make sure the _graphics card is Intel and not NVidia_!!
