[[Ardour]]
[[Recording Days]]

= Studio Setup =

*GOAL:*
Attempt to get a linux DAW working

Steps:
- Install JACK
- Figure out either:
  - An alternative to PulseAudio
  - How to turn off PulseAudio when JACK is running
- Install Ardour
- Try riggint up Zoom interface to it.

*Ideal Rig:*
Power
- Furman basic 8 power conditioner
Interface
- Scarlett 18i20
Reverb/Delay/Fx
- Lexicon mx400
Preamp
- If Guitarix:
  - FMR Audio Really Nice Preamp (~500$)
  - a Rackmount preamp << need research
  - ART Tube ?
- If not Guitarix:
  - Cheap - Line6 pod HDx (~350-500$) << Go with this one! Ola did a video on it with just POD > Logic 9 and it sounded sick so some post-prod should help clean it up!
  - More - used Axe Fx Ultra (~750$)
  - Morer - DV Mark Multiamp?
  - Moreer - used Axe Fx II (~1300$)
  - Morer2 - kemper profiler head
  - I could get something like a DV Micro 50 and cab simulation software

Drums:
Roland TD-1k

= Guitar =
== Gear ==
Actually, think about what I really want... a nice studio option, but also a portable option
- Joyo Mjolnir Head
- Joyo Zombie Head << Would require an attenuator for multiple settings
- DV Mark Little 50 << Solid state, but did sound pretty good and cheaper than the rest
- Orange 1x8

== Lesson Plan ==
Using Jamplay...

=== Beginner track ===
We're starting at the basiscs again just to be sure we've got the foundation down.
I won't be doing all of the videos, but select ones.

Start with:
*David MacKenzie*
- [X] Lesson 5: Speed and Coordination
- [X] Lesson 6: Chord Exercises
- [X] Lesson 7: Practice and Discipline
- [ ] Lesson 8: Double Stops << I didn't think the concept was explained adequately
- [X] Lesson 9: The Major Chords << Non-barre forms.
- [X] Lesson 10: The Minor Chords
- [ ] Lesson 11: Major Scales << Saw the first half, stopped midway. Just showed a different way to play the scale on the low 3 strings.
      ^ Even though I didn't go through it, I do see the value of the other form and that makes me think I should look into practicing different forms on the same starting notes
- [ ] Lesson 12: Major Scale Jam << Skipped/Watched half. Just iterating through the diff major scale patterns up the neck (i.e. E, F, G, A, B, C, D)
- [ ] Lesson 13: The Minor Scales << Skipping based on Major scale lesson
- [ ] Lesson 14: Minor Scale Jam << Skipping based on Major scale lesson
- [ ] Lesson 15: One String Exercise << Skipping. Just practicing minor scale on high e in triplets
- [ ] Lesson 21: Practicing Bends << Skipped. Confirms what I know
- [X] Lesson 22: Basic Vibrato << Nice, but little vague, summary of bend styles
- [X] Lesson 23: Pentatonic Scale << Similar to Major/Minor scale demos. Just 3 string pattern starting at low E
- [X] Lesson 24: Minor Pentatonic Scale
- [X] Lesson 26: Full Minor Scale << Different presentation of the scale. Not much different from what i know.
- [X] Lesson 27: Full Major Pentatonic Scale
- [X] Lesson 28: Full Minor Pentatonic Scale
- [X] Lesson 30: Rhythm Basics
- [X] Lesson 31: Power Chord Variations
- [X] Lesson 33: Tapping Exercise << skimmed most since its just intro to tapping
- [X] Lesson 34: Tapping Exercise #2 << skimmed to since it was just based off on the other
- [ ] Lesson 35: Tapping #3: Adding Open Strings << Skipped since seems similar to other
- [ ] Lesson 36: Tapping #4: Diminished Lick << Skipped since seems similar to other
- [ ] Lesson 37: Tapping #5
- [X] Lesson 39: Tapping #6 << Was very similar to others, but just with more strings
- [X] Lesson 40: Chord Structures << * This was actually neat. Showed the same chord with different chord structures. I.e. using F-chord at the 12th to get another D 
- [X] Lesson 41: Octaves

Summary:
I thought this was a great different perspective on what I know. Although I knew most of the material, a lot of it was presented in a different perspective. I guess a better way of putting is, I knew the material one way, but the parts I didn't skip in this lesson provided an alternate way to doing whatever material the lesson was on. The biggest takeaway I think I have here is to start small and really make sure I've got the concept down. This insight came from the Full Major Pentatonic lesson. I know the minor pentatonic scale, not the major, but still wanted to make sure I got it down. It was a simple two-octave scale run, but instead of just learning the pattern, being able to go up and down it, I made a backing track with the scale and just goof'd solo'd over it. I feel pretty confident with it.


*Lisa Pursell*
- [ ] Lesson 6: Hybrid Picking << Skipped since I'm not interested in picking with both pick & fingers
- [ ] Lesson 8: Travis Picking << Skipped too
- [X] Lesson 9: Triads and Fingerstyle
- [X] Lesson 10: THe Blues Shuffle << Probably didn't need to watch all of this
- [ ] Lesson 13: Barre chords << Watched halfway through and then skipped since its major/minor barre
- [ ] Lesson 14: Syncopated Rhythm << Skipped because its just a 1-e-and-uh scratching pattern with chords on and-uh
- [X] Lesson 16: Syncopated Rhythm Revisited << coud've skipped
- [ ] Lesson 17: Single String Technique << Skipped -- intro on alternate picking
- [X] Lesson 21: Some Blues / Jazz Chords
- [ ] Lesson 22: 6th Intervals << Skipped halfway through because didn't really talk about the application of 6ths
- [ ] Lesson 24: Tool Box Tips << Watched 3/4ths of it. Stopped at the third since it seemed to kind of wander off
- [ ] Lesson 25: Minor Blues Scale << Skipping since it's the blues minor pentatonic scale
- [X] Lesson 26: Texas Style Shuffle Rhythm << IT'S STEVIE!! SRV!!!
- [X] Lesson 27: E7(#9) Chord << Jimi Hendrix style chord!
- [X] Lesson 28: 5 Scale Positions << Penatonic scale
- [X] Lesson 29: Faster Chord Changes
- [X] *Lesson 30: Organizing a Practice Session* << REVISIT MULTIPLE TIMES
- [X] Lesson 33: Barre Chord Concepts
- [X] Lesson 34: Barre Chords in a Blues Progression << Was just I-IV-V progressions with barre chords starting at the 6th and 5th strings
- [ ] Lesson 35: Octave Shapes
- [ ] Lesson 36: Improvising with Intervals
- [ ] Lesson 37: 5th and 6th Intervals
- [ ] Lesson 38: Major Scale
- [ ] Lesson 40: Syncopated Rhythm
- [ ] Lesson 41: Chords and Patterns
- [ ] Lesson 45: Scale Application
- [ ] Lesson 48: Adding the Blue Note
- [ ] Lesson 49: Understanding Vibrato
- [ ] Lesson 50: Sweep Picking Technique
- [ ] Lesson 51: Shell Voicings
- [ ] Lesson 52: Blues Turnaround Ideas
- [ ] Lesson 53: Harmonizing the Majro Scale
- [ ] Lesson 54: 8 Bar Blues
- [ ] Lesson 55: Harmonizing with Diatonic Triads
- [ ] Lesson 56: Connecting Patterns via Sequencing
- [ ] Lesson 58: Full Neck Harmonization
- [ ] Lesson 59: The F#m7(b5) Chord
- [ ] Lesson 60: Extensions
- [ ] Lesson 61: Passing Tones
- [ ] Lesson 62: Creating a Solo
- [ ] *Lesson 65: Using a Metronome*
- [ ] Lesson 66: Rhythmic Chord Playing
- [ ] Lesson 67: Creative Double Stop Ideas


Reference then with:
*Mark Brennan*
- [ ] Lesson 7: The C Major Scale - 1st Position
- [ ] Lesson 8: Chords in C major - Part 1
- [ ] Lesson 9: Chords in C major - Part 2
- [ ] Lesson 15: The Key of G Major
- [ ] Lesson 16: Chords of G Major
- [ ] Lesson 17: The Key of D Major
- [ ] Lesson 18: Chords of D Major
- [ ] Lesson 22: Blues Boogie Shuffle
- [ ] Lesson 24: Introduction to Improvisation
- [ ] Lesson 25: The Key of A Minor
- [ ] Lesson 28: Movable Dominant 7th Chord Forms
- [ ] Lesson 29: MOvable Minor and Minor 7th Chord forms

Next, mostly chords with:
*Brad Henecke*
- [ ] Lesson 13: The A7 Chord
- [ ] Lesson 14: The D7 Chord
- [ ] Lesson 15: The E7 Chord
- [ ] Lesson 16: The G7 Chord
- [ ] Lesson 17: The B7 Chord
- [ ] Lesson 18: The C7 Chord
- [ ] Lesson 19: The F Major Chord

More stuff with:
*Chris Liepe*
- [ ] Lesson 3: 3 New CHords: Complete the CAGED Method
- [ ] Lesson 6: Barre and Minor Chords
- [ ] Lesson 7: Strum Patterns and Time Signatures
- [ ] Lesson 8: All About Intervals
- [ ] Lesson 20: Palm Muting
- [ ] Lesson 21: Hybrid Picking

*Will Ripley*
- [ ] Lesson 22: Muting Techniques
- [ ] Lesson 26: Sus and Slash Chords
- [ ] Lesson 28: The Secret to Changing Chords
- [ ] Lesson 28: Rhythmic Subdivisions
- [ ] Lesson 37: Chop Builders
- [ ] Lesson 41: Precursor to Barre Chords
- [ ] Lesson 42: Four Shapes of Barre Chords
- [ ] Lesson 43: Barre Chord Song


=== Gear Lessons ===
*Mark Brennan*
- [ ] Lesson 23: Amplification Part Two

*Chris Liepe*
- [ ] Lesson 11: Effect Pedal Mini Series
- [ ] Lesson 12: Effect Pedal: Compression
- [ ] Lesson 13: Gain Stacking with Overdrive and Distortion
- [ ] Lesson 14: Effect Pedal: Delay
