There's a wonderful guide [here](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Guide_to_X11/Introduction)

X11 is the *X Window System*, the graphical environment for most Unix-like systems. It's an interface to the screen, keyboard, and mouse. _X11 is the Unix and Linux graphic drivers_.

For Mac, the X in OS X was to signify the inclusion of X11.

*Window Managers* are programs that handle the visual organization/management of programs. You know how some programs have buttons to minimize/maximize/close? That's the work of a Window Manager!

Programs have their own windows. I think of a window as a container for a program. Thus each program has its own window, and there can be multiple windows/programs existing simultaneously, but there can only be one Window Manager. How would the computer know which manager to use for a program if there were more than one window manager?

The X window system has its own protocol - X! The program *X server* is what draws graphics (including mouse) onto the screen. "It loads a graphics video driver, a keyboard driver, and a mouse deriver" (https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Guide_to_X11/Introduction) Programs create a window where the program appears in.

The X server waits for *X clients*, programs that make windows (like any program. FireFox, OpenOffice, etc.). You can _login remotely_ using X server which allows you to see and use programs that are on other computers, even if the OSs are different!.

`startx` is used to start the X server. It looks for the `.xinitrc` file and starts that up. `.Xresoursces` and `.Xmodmap` aren't necessarily needed to be named that way since they are called via xinitrc.

