# 2021 Aug 20
I've been meaning to start some sort of running documentation for my thoughts on managing my ADHD since being recently diagnosed. It's hard to start something when you're not even sure how to start or where. Thankfully today I woke up with a few thoughts and wanted to jot them down.

Funnily enough, I've been side tracked quite a few times before actually sitting down to write this. It is 8:18 AM. I woke up at 6:30 AM. Thanks Reddit and TikTok.

Getting back on topic, I've been struggling with finding and documenting strategies. I also realize I need to spend some time brainstorming what may work for me. I have found that being aware of certain things I do that may not be ideal helps a long way. My hope is to document my findings in a rough way here and then try to spend some time re-reading these to find what helps.

I just realize the idea of remembering to re-read my findings is basically a shot in the dark. I tend to skim when reading large texts and I tend to write/say a lot. What a funny situation!

# Marks and Tags

I'm going to use the following **marks** as pseudo-tags for future me to search by:

- `[strategy]<executive-function>`
- `[issue]<executive-function>`
- `[NOTE]` -- for miscellaneous thoughts that don't quite fit in w/ the narrative

The `<executive-function>` portion is a template/placeholder. An example would be `[strategy]<working-memory>`.

---
Wonderful.

I certainly did not anticipate getting so bogged down in details so early! But this is helpful. The `<tags>` bit was an addition thought of while writing the other two sentences. Imagine what this document would look like if there were lines tracing the sections I jumped back and forth between! It would look like if Spiderman had a fun pub crawl!

# History

`[NOTE]`
A little bit of history is needed.

As of writing, I am on Vyvanse and have been for about two months now. I decided to go with medication at the same time I was diagnosed. I started off with 10mg but found the effects to last from about 8AM until around 6PM. The drug advertises the effects to last up to 14 hours. To save you the math, 8AM to 6PM is 10 hours (8 + 4 = 12 & 12 + 6 = 6 thus 4 + 6, okay, my math checks out). After discussing with my psychiatrist I've been taking two capsules so now I'm at 20mg a day. Both capsules are taken together in the morning around 7:15-7:30-ish.

I have found the drug wonderful. Others have observed my speaking to be more eloquent and not so rambly. I am able to focus on activities that do not interest me like meetings or not so interesting code problems. Oh! And chores around the house! That has been a big one. I can remember to do things around the house like take the trash out or empty the drain catcher after doing dishes or other out-of-sight tasks. I also observed an improvement on my working memory! I have been able to do a task, remember to do a different task, do that other task, remember what I was doing before, and return to the original task. Usually that first task would have been long gone or I would have to spend some energy and time trying to recall.

# Back to your regularly scheduled broadcast!
`[issue]<working-memory>`

## Overview
Working memory has been one of my most problematic areas. I'm so easily excitable and distractable. Plus, there are a lot of things going on at both home and work. Vyvanse has helped, but it's a crutch right now. I want to develop strategies for returning to what I was doing.

## Dr Sachs recommendation
Dr. Sachs recommended using a box and index cards to jot down ongoing tasks. When you have to switch tasks, write down what you were doing and put that card in the box. I can see the benefits to this, but I'm slow at physically writing, often have to respond quickly, and, very frequently, work on tasks that require a lot of context, which would mean that context would need to be documented as well. As a result, no go. I still have the box and unopened index cards to boot!

## How I view the problem
Let's draw a funky diagram with text to show one way I view this problem (I'm typing this on my Linux computer).

[thinking about thing - let's call it (A)]
|
|
|
[thinking about (A) makes me think of (B)]
|>  [thinking about (B)]
    |
    |
    |
    |
    [out of nowhere comes thought (C)]
    |>  [thinking about (C)]
        |
        [how did I get here?]
        |
        |
        [Oh yeah, (B)]
    [back to (B)!]
    |
    |
    |>      [start daydreaming (D)]
            |
            |
            [Oh yeah, I was thinking about (C)]
        [remembering what I thought about (C)]
        |
        [oh yeah, (B)]
    [back to (B) pt 2]
    |
    |
    [wait, how was this related to (D)?]
    |
    |
    [How did I even get here?]
    [No recollection of (A) until hours or days later]


Nothing phenomenal here. This is a common experience within the ADHD community. I like to view the transitional sections (marked |>  [...]) as black boxes. They are black boxes because I have no idea what my brain does to connect one idea to the other. That, I believe, is why I have difficulty recalling what I was just doing; because I have no idea of the connections! Also, viewing the problem visually also makes it more clear to me how used up my working memory is. While I may be several transitions in a train of thought, thinking about something _seemingly_ irrelevant to the original thought, somehow they're all related.

To make a gross oversimplification of the problem, I'm going to borrow a comparison from _A Mind for Numbers_ by Barbara Oakley. In her (I believe Barbara goes by her) book, she describes working memory as an octopus. An octopus has eight legs so it can only hold onto eight things at once. Every time you think about something your working memory is at play and thus a tentacle is used for a particular concept. If multiple concepts are involved multiple tentacles are used.

With the above diagram we have four main thoughts for our mental octopus to wrangle with: A through D. We can imagine those thoughts may involve other concepts too. Let's say A involves 1 concept, B 2, C 3, and D 4. We start off at A so that's 1 tentacle used. B comes along and is thought of from A, so that's 3 tentacles. C uses 3 so that's 6 altogether. We still have 2 tentacles left.

D comes in with a whopping demand of 4 tentacles. We have to drop at least 2 things. I'm not even sure we have a say in what to drop! Let's say whatever the oldest thoughts are dropped. We drop A, but still need to drop 1 more thing. B is 2. I have no idea if it's possible to drop "half" a thought, but let's say without that "half", it's not really B anymore; it's B prime or whatever. So we can either go with B-prime or drop B altogether. Regardless, _the original thought is comprimised_. We're left with C, D, and maybe B-prime for a total of 7 or 8 tentacles used.

This is even more interesting than I thought! Say we keep B-prime in play. All of our tentacles are used. If we want to remember what B is we have to drop something, again. We have B-prime, but that's just _half_ of B. Plus all of this is somehow derived from A, but also the root of C. We don't have A so we could reverse engineer C to recover B. We also have done a fair amount of thinking on C, so we're probably some distance away from the root of C. We're getting a little bit too silly with this now so let's take two-steps back, simplify, and say somehow C + B-prime = B. We need 2 tentacles to hold that and C and B-prime are actively being used so D is dropped. Let's also say B-prime is transformed to B, so we don't have to worry about dropping it or anything. We're back to B and C with A and D out of the picture. I'm sure you get the idea now.

All of this said, the transition points _look_ like the problems. Personally, I love connecting randomly related things _but_ it is problematic for conversations or trying to complete personal things. So how can I solve this?

One idea that just came to me is whenever my head jumps from one idea to another, take a moment to think about how the two are related and then retell the story/thought from the beginning.

This may not work though. A big problem with this is how the heck are you going to be aware of when you're switching trains of thought!? We can get excited about these ideas too! We don't want to slow down. Gotta go fast!

Perhaps then the problem is how to bring awareness to _the act_ of thought transitioning. This is weird and I'm not sure if it's possible. People often don't notice even the most basic of experiences like a non-threatening allergic reaction, acne from stress, sweating, sometimes even bleeding, etc. This makes me think maybe the focus should be on improving memory via constant recall.

If you can make recall a habit, would that improve working memory?

Practicing this could maybe look like, recalling what just happened in the past hour, 30 min, 15 min, etc, as baby steps; then grouping time by morning, afternoon, and night, eventually leading up to days. You get the idea.

How to make it a habit though?
Alarms?
Start off by journaling at night and trying to push the journaling time earlier over time?
