:haskell:

# Applicative
Applicative is a typeclass that enhances [Functor](./haskell-functors.md). It is used to apply a function that is in a context and to wrap values in a context.

As an example, consider the `Maybe` type. It is a contextual type because the type says "this value may or may not exist". The presence of the value is contextual. Now consider wanting to add two `Maybe Int` values together. Essentially the addition will look like `Maybe Int + Maybe Int`, but there's a problem: the operator, `+`, is not of the `Maybe` type! One thing we can do to get halfway there is use Functor's `fmap` (aka `<$>`) to create a partial function. Remember that `fmap`'s signature is `Functor f => (a -> b) -> f a -> f b` so we'll be using `+` as our function, the first argument in `fmap`, and the first `Maybe Int` to produce `Maybe (Int -> Int)`. Now we have a function in a `Maybe` context so the question becomes how to apply that function. One approach is to write functions to deal with the various paths a datatype can have (in this case two for `Maybe`), but the Applicative typeclass comes to save the day! It provides a way to apply contextual functions like what we created without having to write out all of the paths! Applicative provides the *app* operator, `<*>`, to do this. So to apply our function, `Maybe (Int -> Int)`, we can use `<*>`. In practice the whole image looks like the following: `(+) <$> Just 1 <*> Just 2`. The first part, `(+) <$> Just 1`, is using `fmap` to create our function `Maybe (Int -> Int)`. The latter part, `<*> Just 2`, is applying `Just 2` to our `Maybe (Int -> Int)` function. You may be wondering what would happen if one of the values is `Nothing`. I'd say try it out, but if you're lazy like me it will produce `Nothing`. The why behind it remains as an exercise.
